# Microsoft-Codefundo
Chennai is the capital of the state Tamil Nadu in India and it is the fourth most populous urban agglomeration in India. 
During the Chennai floods of December 2015, the city in Tamil Nadu experienced rainfall that broke records of about hundred years. Therefore it is very much requqired that the city revamps its water management system.
In the past four decades urbanisation increased almost four times at the cost of green and open area. A better understanding of aquatic ecosystem is needed to enable development of best management practices, thus transforming the way the land and water are being used.
The city has large marsh in the south (about 20 km south of the city centre), smaller satellite wetlands around it and large tract of pasture land. The southern marshland called Pallikarni marshland is known as the flood sink area of the city as it drained about 250 sq km of the city in the eighties. The marshland is housed in Chennai Metropolitan Area. There were smaller wetlands around the marshland that served as a source of irrigation in the area that cultivated only paddy. The marshland that was around 5,000 hectares (ha) during independence got reduced to almost 600 ha around 2010-11. The only reason for all this was rapid urbanisation.
We can monitor floods closely with remote sensing data acquired by aircrafts and satellites.Remote sensing is economical; it observes rivers regardless of international borders, and it can uniquely contribute direct measurements of floodplain inundation. Flooding can occur due to various phenomena. Coastal flood is caused by storm surges, sea level rise or tsunami wave; riverine flood normally occurs as a result of heavy rainfall in the upstream areas of a catchment causing an inundation of a normally dry area due to high water volumes (levels) in river streams; flash flood is caused by heavy rainfall in short period of time or a sudden release of dams; and more flood inundation could occur due to lake overflow or groundwater level rise.
 Satellite passive microwave sensors provide global coverage of the Earth's land surface on a near‐daily basis without severe interference from cloud cover. Using a strategy first developed for wide‐area optical sensors, and in conjunction with even limited ground‐based discharge information, such microwave data can be used to estimate river discharge changes, river ice status, and watershed runoff.  This system uses the difference in brightness temperature, at a frequency of 36.5 GHz, between water and land surface to estimate the proportion of water within-pixel over land. To minimize the influence of cloud and local ground factors, the signal from the “wet pixel” within the river reach is normalized using a signal from a nearby “dry pixel”.A possible limitation of using water surface area for estimation of discharge is the relatively small spatial scale of river width and associated reach surface water area changes, but measurement locations can be chosen to maximize measurement sensitivity and reliability. If we use the data from remote sensing data properly we can help the cities cope up with the floods and prevent the disastrous situations.
